Hey, Meltdown! How's it going tonight?
You seem like an audience that doesn't give a shit about false darts.
Well, guess what? You've come to a magical place where anything can happen, and I always will.
So, welcome to the stage for the second time! Dan Harmon! Black Sabbath the Floor! The Double!
Uh, yes, it's a little double-side. We did it from Goldberg, a little satanic Goldberg in the...
Tonight's about being comfortable with chaos.
I was sitting in the back room and I was thinking, like, I don't have anything.
I'm going to run out like a dish rag from the Oscars.
This will be broadcasting a little bit after it's relevant.
We don't have to talk about Seth MacFarlane all night, but because then a little air later,
and people will be like, oh, fresh.
Was it real quick? Because I watched 45 minutes of it, and that was quite enough for me.
What is your take away from the Oscars?
You know, I didn't look up, I didn't see what the Zeitgeist, or the Gestalt, or the Hormenheimer,
was about the whole thing, but I assume, I'm going to go ahead and guess if I was a betting man,
that it would be mixed bag, which I think is what Ryan Ridley said this morning when he came in to Rick and Morty.
Mixed bag, like, yeah, it seemed like, I mean, in the world of Oscars,
you really have to close your eyes and ask yourself, what's the ultimate Oscars,
aside from the one Hugh Jackman hosted that I wrote.
You wrote the whole Oscars?
Well, I wrote the opening thing.
You know what Schrab just told me a couple of days ago, said,
I never told you this because it was going down during the whole Chevy debacle,
and I figured I didn't want to put another nickel in you,
or give you any reason to get any embarrassing public shenanigans,
and there was this article after the Billy Crystal Oscars,
where some snarky blog, like, printed an article that said,
here's the 10 things you have to do to save the Oscars.
Number one, get rid of Bruce Valanche,
and bring the guys back that wrote that, Hugh Jackman opening, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Not a hero, the person doing this, I mean, who cares what his opinion is,
and what are good Oscars, who cares.
But in the comment section under it, Schrab tells me,
Bruce Valanche signs in,
and says, according to Schrab,
so now this is kind of urban legend because I'm quoting Schrab,
who's giving me hearsay from this comment section,
but something akin to,
I'm very sorry that you feel I'm past my prime,
I did my best, you know, those guys,
we all worked on that opening together,
and they're the only ones that won the Emmy,
because they were the ones that were credited for it,
but lie, lie, like lie,
180 degrees from the truth, lie.
Now do people know who Bruce Valanche is in the audience?
Yeah, I think he's kind of famous in the audience.
Are you clapping because you know who he is,
or clapping because you're fans of Bruce Valanche?
I think he's the choice.
Clap if you're a big Bruce Valanche fan.
I mean, he's on Hollywood Squares or was at one point,
he was drawn in The Simpsons,
I mean, he's an iconic non-icon, you know?
Like for 15, 20 years, God knows what,
he's been writing on the Oscars,
but I just thought that was a weird,
that's a weird thing because it's like,
in the world of writing and TV and stuff,
there's always room for all kinds of revisionist,
kind of like, well, you know, Chris McKenna came up with that joke,
but really it was my idea, kind of thing,
it's like, you forget, you work in collaborative environments,
it's like, it's very easy to forget,
especially if you're actually really good in collaborative,
you totally forget what you wrote and what someone else wrote.
But that is not, we walked into the first day of working with that guy,
with a finished thing, because it was songs and stuff,
and there were sets built that Rob made on a cardboard,
so for him to say that in a comment section,
I was like, I thought...
Dan, if you could say one word to Bruce Valanche?
Right now.
Liar.
Like weird liar.
If I get two, I get two?
Weird liar.
Three?
Like weird, weird liar.
Weird lying, weird liar.
I would build out from there,
until it was a buckyball of just calling him a fucking liar.
Like, just weird, with question marks all over it,
going like, why?
I want to know.
If you're a sociopath, then dress differently.
Like, if you're just an automaton,
that's only like this Machiavelli on the ends justifies the means,
then why, where did you arrive at Bruce Valanche as a persona?
Like, how is that effective?
And I just like, honestly, man...
Was he cool to work with?
Was he a good guy?
No, no.
No.
Like, and I'm not, you know, hey look,
I'm notoriously apparently not cool to work with.
I have all kinds of stuff to argue with about that,
but I mean, I think that the people that say that I'm hard to work with
are themselves hard to work with.
I think that they're just bummed out
and they grab for the edge of the pool that's there,
which is like, oh, you know, there's a bunch of people over here
that also were made to feel stupid and untalented.
You know what, he's crazy.
Oh, he's crazy? He's crazy.
Hey, everybody's crazy.
You know, there's a bunch of really awesome people
in the middle of that pool hanging out
and crushing brews and browing down.
Is that how they talk in the middle of the pool?
Yeah, that's where you have the inflatable bunker,
you know, with the squirt gun mounted in it.
It's like, we're having fun out there playing chicken and...
Crushing brews?
Yeah.
Anyway, it's just weird, just weird.
I don't know, brews play out somehow if you receive this message somehow.
And he will, apparently, because he reads comment sections on...
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I think he's a... I put the word image-conscious in giant quotes.
Everybody hashtag Bruce Valanche.
Let's try to...
I'm inviting you down, Bruce, to explain yourself.
Defend yourself, sir.
Granted, I will say this in his defense right now preemptively,
that I did not read the source material that Rob was referring to.
But, I mean, and I don't really want to go digging back for conflict, but...
Let's do it.
Bruce, come down.
Bruce, come down and let's talk about your lying liar-ness.
Speaking of which, did we ever get...
There was a chance that Chevy was going to show up on the tour at some point.
He never did.
Yeah, I guess.
There's always a chance Chevy will show up.
But that was the same as on community.
Like...
That was the whole point.
There was always a flip of a coin, whether he emerged from the trailer,
or what his hair would look like, or what would be on his face,
and sometimes he'd be happy, and sometimes he'd be sad,
and sometimes he'd be angry.
Can we call it right now?
Every time we do that stuff, and it's like...
Vulture, HuffPo, TMZ, they extract without context,
and it's like, I don't know.
I saw WorldWeary.
I have no reason to be WorldWeary.
The world gave me a blowjob.
Was there any fallout, I mean, not fallout,
or any reaction to when Jason Sudeikis called him as Joe Biden?
He called back.
He left a message saying,
What was that?
Was that Danny Pooty?
And then I explained to him, I said,
No, that was Jason Sudeikis from SNL,
and SNL, Saturday Night Live.
No, I'm kidding.
I'm kidding.
But I wouldn't be surprised.
That would be to his credit.
SNL, they adopted that sometime during my life.
He would remember it.
Got KFC.
Yeah.
But he pitched me a TV show idea.
But we talked about this.
I'm WorldWeary, man.
Why are you so weary?
Well, it's Sunday.
It's after the Oscars, as we record this,
I'm just like, you know...
You just hung over?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We tied one on that night.
We played catchphrase to like 5 in the morning.
How'd that go?
I think I won.
Aaron just kept saying,
Oh, we're playing to 20, we're playing to 30,
we're playing to 40.
She just likes to play.
She just likes to play until I get mad.
She's playing a larger game.
Catch fight.
She's catching fights in a little jar.
No, it's a fun game, but, you know,
it's 5 in the morning and, you know...
It's like that game in Indiana Jones
that the...
What's her name is playing with the shot glasses,
you know, it's like...
Catchphrase.
Yeah, yeah, catchphrase is like that.
Because there's like four people around a table
and there's always the first person that's like...
that just stops, you know, their brain stops
being able to participate in catchphrase.
Like they can't figure out what the things are.
They just go,
Okay, umpire.
The word is umpire.
The other person says, you lose.
It's a dumb catchphrase story.
That's a minute, 11.
You won't believe it.
Dan tells all.
Bruce Willis was right.
Um, anyways.
Is Ryan Ridley here in the audience?
Yeah.
All right.
Hey, come up here.
Come up here.
Our next guest is Ryan Ridley.
Oh, shit.
Ryan Ridley.
Ryan is a long time collaborator of mine.
And he works over at the Rick and Morty offices right now,
our adult swim show.
We're about halfway through the run here, script wise.
Yeah.
And I told you if you came to the show,
you could come up on stage.
It's the only way I can get people to come.
Yeah.
So, Ryan Ridley.
Ryan Ridley.
Matt Ridley.
so that makes you handsome compared to-
I have brown hair and brown eyes.
Yeah.
Beautiful, dreamy, endless brown eyes.
I notice you're staring into them a lot at work.
Yeah.
I got Dan, what were you gonna say about the story,
and then-
Ah, okay.
I was kissing you by a crystal blue Italian stream.
Yeah.
How's it going, working for me?
How hard am I to work with?
You know, we had a little dust up,
but other than that, it's pretty good.
You had a dust up?
Yeah.
Well, I went on tour, and I came back,
and I was saying a couple of outlines,
needed more work, and then Ryan, who had kind of like-
Ryan started the Chris McKenna over at Rick and Morty.
What's that mean?
Well, Chris McKenna was like my right hand,
the heart of the show, I would say.
I wasn't saying that out of neurosis.
Okay.
Yeah.
And so, you know, he's like,
Chris was the guy that was responsible
in the absence of responsibility.
Justin Roiland, who co-created the show with me,
he's as crazy as I am in different ways.
Yeah.
And you're the point man,
you gotta batten down the hatches.
I'm the Wonder Bread.
Yeah.
You guys are the peanut butter and jelly.
You gotta churn out that stuff.
So, you put a lot of work into an outline
while I was on the road, and I came back and was like,
the outline, you know, I think we need
to take a step back on this one.
And you went, I wish you would have said that a month ago.
And then you started punching a black baby.
Yeah.
Is that true, Ryan?
Is that true?
I wasn't punching it.
Yeah.
Just throttling it.
Not a monster.
But yeah, he's spinning it a little in his direction.
Yeah.
Should I elaborate?
I don't know.
If you want to, I mean, you're the one
who brought up the dust up.
Yeah, I don't know.
I thought that would be something, you know,
I don't know, that's a good angle, right?
Yeah, I guess.
All right, all right, all right.
Dan.
Hey, there's Abed.
Oh, real Abed's here.
Yeah.
Yeah, real Abed's here.
We'll get with him in a minute, I think.
He'd come up here too.
Yeah, yeah.
Dan, do you respect Ryan as an employee, as a co-worker?
Not that I care.
Yeah.
I'm confident enough for myself.
I did Water in Power, Channel 101's best series
in the history of Channel 11 with Ryan.
Yeah.
You know, we wrote many things together
in front of an open laptop.
Like, I don't let a lot of people come around when I'm
actually typing something on a screen.
That's a big thing for me.
It's like pooping.
I felt good.
I felt good to hear that.
Yeah.
I mean, you're very insecure, very conscious of how other people
perceive you.
Well, who here isn't, right?
Ah.
I think maybe I am the Adam Goldberg, if maybe just
a couple of things different in my life happened.
And, you know, because I was a big fan of Dan's.
Like, I want to meet Dan and work with Dan.
And, you know, I don't know.
Makes sense to me.
Yeah.
Ryan Ridley is a legacy comedy personality.
His dad, Mark Ridley, founded and runs the Chicago Comedy
Castle.
Detroit.
Yeah.
Mark Ridley's Comedy Castle.
So when you were growing up, you would, you know,
Tim Allen would be like, you know.
It's a tiger game with him.
Crashin' on the couch after a, you know, weekend-long
coke bender, we had a lot of tools to house.
Yeah.
Like, like little straws and razor blades, those kind of tools.
That's what tool time was back then.
There was always a guy peering over something.
He only saw from your house.
There's this dealer, like, hey, what's going on?
That's the, that's the inside joke of that, of that gag is
that you never see his nose.
It's his deviated septum, sort of a life of cocaine.
It's just a lot running down in front of the fence.
It's based on a guy from Detroit named Sniffer.
Uncle Sniffer.
Uncle Sniffer is a coke dealer.
Yeah.
No one's uncle, really.
So Ryan, your podcast with Justin.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you.
Why are they laughing?
I would actually, I would actually recommend people
listen to Ryan's podcast with Justin Roiland, like Rick
and Morty creator, and sometimes.
Was that a laugh of recognition because of the podcast?
God damn it.
Somebody, somebody clapped on the back or something.
Anybody?
Do I know you?
Are we friends?
Oh, all right, all right.
It's, it's, it's very addictive, a very funny little
personalities that you guys have.
Yeah.
Well, you said you're inspired by it, and that's why you did
this podcast.
Yeah, I probably stole the idea, yeah.
But yeah, yeah.
From you and seeing Proups at Sketch Fest that first year
we went, I think I was like, OK, let's just
start podcasting, whatever.
You had to throw Proups in, too.
You couldn't just gone with us.
You said no neurosis.
I know, Jeff.
It's hard.
All right, so should we, should we, should we bring
Real Abbot up?
Yeah.
All right, Real Abbot.
He's never in a rod up before?
I don't think he's ever been up, no.
Good Lord.
Woo!
Real Abbot.
Is this like it's nice that I moved down?
Is this an Abbot game or an Abbot?
Well, the man who the character Abbot on the community
was based upon.
You were sitting here, right?
Wait, you, you, you, you, you stand here, buddy.
Yeah, OK.
Hello, buddy.
Hi.
Great to be here.
I, I didn't expect to come on stage, but that's fine.
It's all right.
You shouldn't have sat in the exact center of the audience.
That was, that was kind of an idea.
I mean, you almost sat like the.
I was like so worried.
I was like trying to avoid your gaze.
And I knew in a minute, a minute you looked at me,
you would say something.
All right.
So, uh.
I feel like I should sit down.
No, no, no, no.
Stand.
Is that a stable?
No.
That's not stable.
No, you can't stop that.
OK.
Sorry, sorry.
I just, I, I feel like I'm doing stand-up.
Yeah.
Well, no, it's like this is a Freudian thing.
Like he developed this, like, like you face away.
That's the development of that couch.
You don't look at, look at the audience and listen to us.
OK.
We're going to counsel you.
Straight ahead, yeah.
So, Abed, Abed's name is Abed.
That's where I got the idea for the name Abed.
He's also a bit of a, I would call you a pop cultural savant kind of.
But really, it's more, more, more music for you.
I think when you.
No, actually more like television.
Really?
I'm, I'm, I think more in the television and film and music.
Music was like something I dabbled in.
Just like I was bored.
And he knows a ton about it.
So that's just dabbling.
I learned everything and I moved on kind of.
It's like, I've heard enough music.
You can only take so much music, you know.
All right, Abed, Abed, who wrote or who sings this song?
Uh-oh.
I'll bet it this.
Don't help him.
I want to say this is.
It feels like Led Zeppelin.
Nope.
Deep purple.
Yeah.
Adam Goldberg got it.
I see.
I was close because of almost famous.
Aren't they both in that movie?
Don't know.
Yeah.
Close enough, I think.
All right.
So by now you're saying real Abed?
Well, that wasn't fair.
That was like so wild card.
Well, do you want to, that's my next question.
Do you want, do you want to think about it?
Do you want, do you want to think, to what extent do you want to think that the character
on community is like congruous with you?
Like what would make you more outraged, you know, or uncomfortable?
The idea that he's nothing like you or the idea that he's exactly like you and therefore
I have like somehow exploited you.
You know, everyone gets exploited though.
That's the thing.
I mean, that's nothing new.
It's the American dream.
Yeah, I mean, it's been happening since, and my people were exploited basically.
That's fine.
Yeah, by his.
Right.
I think we get along so well.
Ryan's half Jewish and Abed's half Palestinian.
That's just how it goes with friends.
But no, like, I don't, I honestly.
So half of you exploited half of him, but half of both of you just sit and eat Twinkies
and don't care.
I'm like, half of them is fine.
The other half I got a problem with.
Not really.
I mean, so yeah, like, like, like, I wrote the part and I really wrote the part with
the idea in my head that you would come in and audition for the part, which you did.
Which that was an amazing time of my life, by the way.
Yeah, yeah.
I grew from like, you know, a boy to a close.
Do you remember who else auditioned?
Like who made it to the final round?
It was Kumail.
Kumail Nanjiani.
We were both in the same room and then also, which I knew him, which was crazy because
I was like, I hope you get it, buddy.
And the guy from 30 Rock.
Yeah, and then Danny Pooty was there too.
I don't, at the time, didn't know he was Danny Pooty.
Yeah.
Well, he wasn't Danny Pooty.
I shook his hand and he was Danny.
Here's the guy from movietickets.com ad up on that point.
Yeah.
No, I remember something now when I was leaving.
I remember leaving and I think it was when I was kind of doing good and I saw him coming
out.
It was Danny Pooty because I remembered his face and also you said he looked like a peanut
at one point.
Sorry, but you did.
Yeah.
And then so I was coming out and I won't take it back.
I saw him on the phone.
I don't know where this is going.
I saw him on the phone and he looked like so happy.
Like he was ecstatic and he was just like, I wasn't that happy.
And so I felt like, yeah, I mean, I guess he's going to get it.
I mean, everybody kind of nailed it.
After you walked out, everyone was like, holy shit.
That guy is like, I can see now where you got the idea for the personality, like some
of the stuff on paper now makes sense, but they said the same thing after Camille.
They said the same thing after, what's this?
I can't really remember his name.
The guy that plays the assistant in 30 Rock.
Like Johnny Arben or something.
Johnny Arben.
That's got to be it.
I feel bad now because that guy's going to get mad, right?
I'm sure, yeah.
He was a long time listener and tonight's the night.
Finally we talked about him and we couldn't get his name.
Oh, no.
He's going to beat me up after the show.
But, yeah, I mean, but Pooty was just the difference.
Like all he came in and it was just like, okay, after he walked out, it was like, okay,
so are we going to have a show with that guy in it or not?
And so it had nothing to do with being right for the character.
It was like, like, now let's make the character right for that guy because he's like a superstar.
Well, that's how I feel.
I mean, he did these amazing things when he came in.
No, but see, I see that.
I see that I inspired the character, but then you took it into a really cool direction and
it became its own thing and so Danny brought a lot of himself to it.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's that's how it happened.
That's what Abed, they can't fire your creator.
You're going to be the same Abed the rest of your life.
That's right.
I'm in it for life.
I mean, I can't just jump out.
In a sense, half of your people are like changing it to a different time slot.
We have some notes.
Yeah.
You tried to fire his creator.
Clearly.
Yeah.
Come on.
All right.
I don't want to go there.
That's a whole other can.
That's a whole other show.
Do you think Palestine should be a state Abed?
Well, it is Dan, actually.
I mean, he calls it Israel.
I call it Palestine like apples and potatoes and potatoes kind of thing.
Right.
Latkes and...
Clumps of dirt.
Yeah.
I don't even know what they have.
I don't know what they have.
Do you say latkes?
I say patakkes.
They have some food that's like blah, blah, blah, whatever.
I can't say it.
I don't remember.
I ate it.
It was good.
I don't remember what it was called.
It's not called patakkes.
Yeah, patakkes.
If Dan had said that, he'd love it.
Abed, before you go, would you tell everybody your idea for a restaurant?
Oh, no.
This again.
How many times have we...
Okay.
Well, this is like, I came up with this so long ago and it was like, I don't know why.
But it was a real idea for a restaurant.
Yeah, it was a real idea.
And for some reason, you attached to it so tenaciously over the years.
Because it's insane.
It's not insane, though.
It's totally...
It should happen, basically.
Well, I'm sure they'll agree.
Just tell them.
Tell them.
Okay.
Because you forget the specifics.
Like, would I tell you the story?
All right.
So, like, you have...
Now, we all realize that little foods are taking over, right?
Foods are getting smaller.
I mean, that's...
Yeah.
Let's all agree as a premise.
Let's all agree as a premise before we go any further.
The little foods are taking over.
Just as the Wright brothers had to accept gravity.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I didn't write the rules.
There's just fundamental answers.
Wake up, you guys.
Okay.
Fact number one, little foods are taking over.
Check out the idea of large foods for now.
For one time in your life.
I mean, okay.
You're in a restaurant.
You see a plate of little burgers and a plate of a normal burger.
I think you'll go to the little burgers.
Fact number two, right?
You could have, like, one little burger and be like,
oh, man, I got a taste and I don't feel guilty.
It's great.
The whole hamburger, if you eat, like, some of it
and you just put it down, you're like,
that guy's wasting food.
Fuck him, you know?
It's like, you look and you can't save it for later
because it's weird.
I don't know.
So, anyway...
I was here, baby.
I'm like, where can you go to get food that's all small?
You know?
There's no place.
You could go to the Smurfs Village.
That doesn't exist, though.
A tapas restaurant?
I think we've looked for that.
What?
Tapas.
A tapas restaurant?
Spanish have been doing this for centuries.
Oh, so they make small, like, burritos and tacos and stuff?
They make little...
No, no, no.
I mean, like...
No, no.
That's Mexico.
Describe your...
The Spanish don't make burritos.
Describe your restaurant, Abba.
Describe your restaurant.
Oh, yeah, right.
So the restaurant's called Bytes.
Bytes.
And at the time, I thought it was clever to spell it with a Y.
Right.
Because then everyone would think it was a computer store.
Yeah, the computer age was starting to, like, jump into the...
when I came up with the idea.
Yeah.
And then I was like, this idea...
Okay, okay.
You just go in...
Okay, let's say I'm with someone, like, a girlfriend.
If I had a girlfriend and she's like, oh, my God, I don't want pizza again.
You asshole.
I want burgers.
And you're like, fuck you.
You know, that happens all the time.
And Bytes, she can have her...
What kind of relationship is this?
I was generalizing.
It sounds like a terrible relationship.
I'm saying...
You're like thinking, fuck you, but you're saying, like, oh, I would like something else.
Okay.
All right.
That's your thinking.
It's that Louis Armstrong song, right?
Talk to her nicely.
Okay.
Treat her like a lady.
Well, fuck you, lady.
Okay.
Fuck you, lady.
But, no, I mean, I, you know, okay.
So that's the thing is like...
So you walk into Bytes.
Yeah.
And the...
And the maitre d is that he sits you?
Well, he's small too, actually.
The whole thing is going to be like, yeah, I have it all for you.
Wait.
I mean, okay.
Okay.
You guys are all laughing, but...
You're just talking about a tiny little village.
You guys are laughing, but if he's a little person and you order...
It's like...
He intensifies the experience because you're like, everything's small, so no.
No, no, no.
They're giants.
They should be giant.
They should cast high relief on how small the bite of your food is.
If your waiter's tiny, he gives you a tiny piece of pizza.
It looks like a real pizza.
But that's what's cool because in his world it's like, oh, normal pizza, but then he
gives it to you and you're like, whoa, small pizza from a small guy.
Is he like a character when you come in?
He says, hey, can I get you some normal sized food?
And there's a sign that says, don't tell him.
You should be a co-partner.
I've invested in worse, I believe.
I couldn't have thought of that.
Abed, what is on the menu at Bites?
Take you through that.
What are the appetizers?
The map of the world.
The whole thing is appetizers, right?
Yeah, there's every kind of food there.
So you come in and you're like, man, I just love kebabs.
Oh, they're so good.
And McDonald's are like, kebab, what?
What the fuck?
Get out.
But you go to Bites and you just go to the section of the map where the Middle East
is and you got your kebabs right there, baby.
What does a kebab at Bites look like?
It's like a tiny, like, Euro or kebab or whatever.
It's just miniaturized.
Yeah, it's supposed to be a little poop or something.
Kebabs look like poop.
Am I the only one that knows that?
Yes, they do.
Not if you're doing it right.
I see a kebab and I go giant turd.
It's not a food.
Okay, you want to say little turd.
Well, yeah, a little turd in here.
I walk into Bites with my girlfriend, whom I love.
Okay.
And I walk in there and I say, you know, honey, what are you in the mood for?
She goes, I'm in the mood for soup.
Wow.
I would like a Vietnamese pho.
That's so fascinating because he had the same thing back in the day,
but his question was like, what about if I want soda?
Do I get a little drop of soda?
What's the deal with that?
And then I had to say, which I think I was like mentally like,
fuck, what do I say?
He's got me.
I was like, all right, normal sized soda because let's face it,
no one's going to be like excited about a drop of soda.
So I think with the soup, I'm not excited about midget waiters.
Well, yeah, that's going to freak me out too.
Okay. Well, then you guys are there was a guy at the,
I mean, we're just trying to talk you to your business model here.
Can I tell you real quick?
I'm not a businessman.
I just want to interject when I was like 10 years old for a time,
my parents separated and I lived with my mom in South Milwaukee,
as we called it, South Milwaukee.
And there was a McDonald's there that my grandma always recommended
because it had Billy the brownie.
And I always, I grew up thinking Billy the brownie was a legitimate McDonald's
land character.
A little did I know I was going to a South Milwaukee McDonald's
where some like homeless little person dressed up like an elf
and just hung out at McDonald's and would just talk to children
and old people.
That was his name, Billy Brownie?
Yeah, Billy the brownie.
Like a walk on character?
And this was the, this was the,
It's like from Willow, remember the brownie?
Yeah, yeah.
This was the early 80s and I had seen that Donald Sutherland movie
Don't Look Now.
Like, yeah, and a deafening silence from our 25 year old peanut gallery.
Let me tell you, that'll put the midget fear in you in that movie.
I mean, I can't control your, you know, whatever your psychoses is.
I mean, well, well, well, well, we're not,
no, I'm just saying like, that's the one experience I have
with being in a restaurant and having a little person be.
I thought you were attacking the restaurant with that psychoses story.
I get, well, I think Jeff and I were both suggesting to you that
with all due respect to all humanity, like the idea of institutionalized
like genetic, it's a eugenic kind of thing you're doing.
Like you're going like, it's like a doxin that you've bred to work at your restaurant.
You're opening a lot of doors for me here,
because now I'm thinking of Oopa Loopa situation.
I can get, you can find a special kind of little person that exists.
It's like hooters for little people.
They only exist in one land and their skin is like blue and they're like,
or not blue.
What about the animals?
Are you going to breed little animals?
I feel like community would have a better show with this obed.
I do, yeah.
We've been a way different show, yeah.
I want to drove them nothing.
Okay, so now I don't want to bend your mind,
but take me into the kitchen at Bites,
because this is where my investment is hesitant,
because I feel like the overhead is maximized in a kitchen where,
okay, so three tiny pizzas, one half anchovies, one half mushroom,
and two tiny, tiny tacos, and one tiny chicken shish kebab.
They have to...
You make a real pizza in the kitchen.
Here's my pitch.
You make a real pizza in the kitchen,
and then you have a little cookie cutter,
the shape like teeth, like a little bite.
It looks like somebody already bit out of the pizza.
That is awesome.
Wow.
I'm like, you guys are opening so many new doors here.
So you have a bite of a burger that the teeth have already incised the burger,
and you have that on the side.
And then you put crumbs on the little person's cheek that meets you,
and let me finish.
And he's the spokesmodel for the restaurant,
and his catchphrase is, I'm full.
You can finish it.
Over five locations.
Now on Hollywood and Layton.
You can finish it.
There's our commercial, man.
Because his stomach is extra small.
Well, that's cool because it's like the Chuck E. Cheese thing.
Everyone looks like the one thing, the one guy, you know?
It's like if I had a ton of Chuck E. Cheese, it's Chuck E. Cheese.
Yeah, yeah.
It's like that.
They all kind of look the same, oop-a-loop-as things,
and yeah, and they take bites out of the food,
but they don't actually do that.
All right, one more thing,
and then we're going to keep the train moving.
I wanted to give you that kitchen update.
Well, I just think, honestly, it's a non-solvent business.
And I don't think you thought it through,
because I think the reason why Mexican restaurants don't bother to go,
oh, fuck it, you can also get a fish sandwich here and plus a pizza,
is because they would have to then, it wouldn't be worth it for them.
You have to kind of focus your menu.
Well, it's a little cheesecake factory, basically.
Right.
Well, you know, I mean, there's 50 things in that menu, right?
I'm going to compromise though,
because what if now we make a special food land?
So you enter food land,
and there's like every restaurant in food land,
kind of like the Disney of restaurants,
because my dream was like,
I wanted people to have whatever they wanted in one place.
Oh, right, right.
That was the dream.
And that's what Goldberg says, it's called the food court.
But food courts suck,
and they don't have any good food.
And it's too big.
Yeah, I'm like, what the fuck do I get?
I'm going to eat a whole bowl of noodles.
Imagine entering.
What am I, a monster?
Imagine a glorious theme park,
where it's like, you know what I mean?
It's like you're visiting France.
Yeah.
But you're actually eating French, you know what I mean?
So you're talking about Epcot Center.
You're talking about a miniaturized Lego land Epcot Center.
Yeah, wow.
Yeah, I guess I haven't been there, so,
that's probably what it's like.
All right, you look a good real abbot.
Let's have a hand for real abbot.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
You can...
Come on.
Me too.
It's nice, I think...
Yeah, I guess why don't you take a hike too, Ridley?
Thank you for coming, Ryan Ridley.
That's how you get Ryan Ridley to come to your show.
You give him some stage time.
It's nice, I think everyone should create TV shows
with their friends in them, because then,
who is normally just normal abbot, becomes real abbot.
And he was kind of an unreal guy before,
and now whenever I see him, I go, hey, it's real abbot, man.
It's groovy.
I'm more real to you.
Yeah, exactly.
It's nice.
It's a nice...
You're welcome, abbot, for the favor I did you, but...
Is there any part of you, Dan, that feels like...
What's your feeling about creating a character based on him?
Which version of that is your favorite?
Well, I mean, I said...
What do you mean?
Oh, do you like...
Which abbot do I like more?
Yeah.
Do you like your creation, or do you like the inspiration?
No, come on, of course I like real abbot, he's real.
Oh, good.
Yeah.
Me too.
I have everything...
We were at a party one time at Rob Schrab's place,
and...
And...
Abbot was talking to a person that had passed out.
Oh, god damn it.
Rob...
There was a person that had completely fallen asleep,
and was like, head back...
And abbot, you were breaking it down.
And...
I didn't know he fell asleep.
Exactly.
Abbot just called out...
I didn't know he fell asleep, exactly.
He was cutting the silhouette of a person sleeping.
He only...
He only lacked the disease coming out of his head.
The entire party started, so at a certain point we went like,
look what's happening over there.
And abbot was just talking...
There was music playing, and he was talking to our friend,
Rod, who was full on asleep.
And for real, like, not only...
This won't translate to the podcast,
but, like, seriously, not only talking to him,
like, so I guess you could see, like, you're talking,
you're lost in thought, so you just,
you don't notice a person listening.
But, like, abbot was making these expressions.
He was going like...
Like, he was somehow getting feedback
from our unconscious friend.
As Rod slowly slumped...
Like, before he hit the floor, like...
Like, his head was like...
He looked like he was dead.
His head was dangling, and abbot was just talking to him,
like, he was on the view or something.
But the reason...
He was talking about work, I worked with him.
And in boredom, they were talking about work.
The beauty of that thing...
What was great about that moment is not that
that was funny and hilarious, I mean, it was,
but, like, I like the sound of my own voice, too.
I would love the freedom just to talk to a corpse for a while.
Or to, yeah, to not care that much?
Like, I repeat my story,
so we tell the same stories in Harmontown
a million times over.
It'd be great just if you guys were all just mannequins.
We could just...
We could tell the big Jell-O story again.
It'd be great.
It's like a superpower.
Let's keep the people that auditioned
for the part of Abaddon community train rolling
and bring up Kumail Nanjiani.
Yeah.
It's a theme tonight.
I didn't know you auditioned for that.
Huh?
Yeah.
I auditioned to be that guy.
How'd it go?
Well, I didn't get it, but I got pretty close.
Oh, yeah, for sure, man.
I would stay up at night going, fuck, did I?
I mean, if it weren't for Danny Pudi
and for real Abaddon sitting in the audience right now,
I would tell you, like, man, second place.
I'd never...
Thank you.
I had never acted at that point, by the way.
That was my first...
When I auditioned for that, I had no fucking idea what it was doing.
And you were really nice.
I'd met you before a little bit and you came out to all of us
and you were like, you know, it's a really awkward, weird fucking process.
Sorry, we have to go through it.
You, like, apologized for the process, which nobody does.
Yeah.
That was very hard to work with.
Well, you gave me the wrong impression that day
because I was like, oh, he's such an easy-going, nice guy.
It's weird, it's weird.
Yeah.
I can't...
I can't decide if Abad is Adam Goldberg Light
or if Adam Goldberg is Abad Light.
I don't know, I don't know.
Like, there's a whole Rubik's Cube of humanity
in our McDonald's land.
It's crazy.
I'm gonna open your...
Adam Goldberg's been playing hard to get.
Like, that's his new strategy.
No, he's not.
He retired from being a character at the Egyptian show
and, like, he's playing it cool.
He's reversed psychology.
He's the gaming us.
Oh, yeah.
Next time he wears, like, a huge hat to peacock.
Like, oh.
Ignore me.
I have noticed from Adam's behavior
that he's obviously read weird, like, men's guides dedicating
because he does things like he'll give you a gift,
but then two weeks later, he'll go,
can I have that back?
And it's like, come on, that had to come from some creepy, like,
FHM guy, like, like, guide to Gettner.
FHM.com slash approximate human behavior.
Like...
Yeah.
So, uh...
Uh...
But now, yeah, and he's just, he's cold-shouldering us.
I mean, now, he's sitting, he's in the front,
he's in the second row.
He's the second row now, yeah.
I shouldn't say cold-shouldering us,
because he's not armed.
He's still piping up.
But no, look at him.
He's got a healthy glow.
He's smiling.
He's having a good time.
He's making us jealous.
Like, he's showing up at the ex-girlfriend's party
and being like, hey, what's up?
He just lifted up his sweater
and showed us a Harmontown shirt underneath it.
Like, there's something terrible is about to happen.
You should listen to...
And underneath that shirt is clearly a bomb.
When you listen to his interview on the podcast cast,
he gets deeply...
Aaron said she heard it and she was crying
because it gets so personally revelatory.
I listened to it and I was like, well, that's no.
It's like, Adam's like, you know,
he's got a lot of my DNA.
Maybe 50%.
I'll bet or Adam.
Adam, right.
But he was like, you know,
he's got one foot in, one foot out.
Like, when's he being self-deprecating?
Is he a narcissist?
Does he hate himself?
Blah, blah, blah.
He's telling the story of how Adam's a dungeon master.
Like, Adam's origin story,
when you peel back the comic book characters,
lares the night that Spencer came,
that fateful night,
and Spencer raised his hand when we said,
is there a dungeon master here?
Adam's a dungeon master.
And Adam wasn't here that night.
There's always a Spencer.
For real?
And he has had to live with the agony
of some hypothetical alternate timeline,
where he is Spencer ever since.
The Spencer of the Opera.
Which includes him coming on tour with us.
The poster has his face on it.
Adam, you're a dungeon master?
Well, I have a story about it,
but I'm playing hard to get, so I don't know.
That's not how you do it.
You can't say...
You can't reveal your strategy.
That kills it.
That should be rule number one.
Don't tell anyone you read this article.
Step two.
Because Camille, you played hard to get for a year and a half.
We had to ask you to come up on stage.
No, I didn't play hard to get.
I came because my wife started off producing the show.
Her idea.
Yeah, it was her idea.
Dan Harmon used to do a podcast.
Yeah, it's not the light bulb.
I mean, everyone had a podcast already.
I was the last person to not have one.
She was like, come on, I feel bad for you.
She did?
Yeah, where is this going?
So I used to come and watch with her.
Because, you know, I really liked watching the show.
So I would come and hang out and watch the show for like a year.
But you had never played D&D before.
No.
But you're a gamer.
You love games, right?
Yeah, you know, I grew up in Pakistan.
We didn't really have...
D&D wasn't really a thing.
Nobody I knew ever did.
Too close to home.
Because of an institution...
What do you think Pakistan is like?
Dragons?
Well, Dan Harmon...
I mean, you don't have first world problems, right?
By definition, we don't.
I thought...
Hey, listen, all I know is what I read in my Noam Chomsky books.
I thought we had institutionalized the system of enforced, you know, like, like, like, you know,
medieval, like, like, theocracy over there.
Like, playing one against the other and kind of keeping everyone, everyone east of a certain
line in a place where...
I guess Pakistan is closer to D&D land than Minnesota.
Yes, yes.
Let's end this spectrum.
Yeah, more caves.
Yeah, we have...
I'm not saying there's ogres there.
You're on the line.
Caves is right on the line.
I feel like I really want to argue with you guys, but I can't really find an argument right
now.
Well, it's an interesting...
It is.
What is my obligation as a first world or a privileged guy growing up in Wisconsin?
Am I a better person if I acknowledge that the Middle East is a kind of artificially enforced
kind of medieval territory?
Or am I a better person if I go, there are people too.
That's a great...
Oh, that's a...
For the Fertile Crescent, what a wonderful place, the Paris of the planet.
I think there's a happy medium between those two.
The happy medium being that it's not medieval, and also it's not the Paris of the planet.
I think the happy medium would be that you and I grew up in a culture where we have so
much free time that we can pretend to live in a world where every corner you walk around
like a guy might chop you up with an axe.
Exactly.
Again...
That's our fantasy.
I don't know how accurate that is per se.
I mean, I do have axe wounds all over me, but if you're good at dodging, you can live to
be, you know, the average age is 19, but that's including the infant mortality.
We all saw Argo.
We all know everything.
Dan, do you think Pakistan is more magical than Wisconsin?
I just...
It's more of all the territories over there.
It's like one of the...
Territories?
You mean countries?
Of all the territories?
All the...
Your tribes?
Of all the...
You mean my family?
Out of all the military bases that we have over there, it is one of the more westernized
that has had a tradition of collaboration with...
Yeah.
It's sort of...
I would...
The Great Great Satan.
Terminate it.
Frenemy of America.
Yeah.
Frenemy, yeah.
Frenemies.
It really is because a lot of the country, obviously, against the West, because it sort
of stands for everything, the opposite of what sort of Islam stands for in a lot of ways,
but then also there's a big seduction of the West, so once we got MTV, like boys started
wearing shorts, so it's sort of a weird tussle.
It really is.
You saw the country change once MTV happened.
I saw it.
Yeah.
It was all over MTV.
Kurt Loder, you had the Pakistan transformation hour.
No, the...when 9-Eleven happened, there was...I really honestly can't recall the details,
but I remember Pakistan was sort of front and center in the headlines.
I think it had something to do with...
I could see that.
We needed...there's always some country like Libya, or something happens and America wants
to maneuver something, and then there's some character that no one's thought about for
10 years.
No one's used the word.
I remember when 9-Eleven happened, it was like, Pakistan, Pakistan, Pakistan, not for
anything relating to anything other than like airspace or like...
Wow.
So it's sort of like when I watched...I know what you did last summer, it kind of pissed
me off that they were...the murder was some fisherman that they wronged a year ago that
you never saw.
So to you, Pakistan, is that fisherman.
Yeah, yeah.
Sorry, I haven't heard about this guy.
You were like, that's fucking country, why?
But there was some kind of thing, it was like, like, yeah, Pakistan was...
The idea that that was a safe house that were harboring, you know, al-Qaeda or something
like that, right?
And or helping us, like it was like, you know, caught in between like the...was it Pakistan
that had the...no, that's Jordan, Jordan was also like came to the forefront, and that's
what...
Jordan's gone, Pakistan, we're still hanging on to our 15 minutes.
Remember the wake of 9-Eleven, like, this was like, just speaks to like the first world
like, like, kind of like, I don't know, god damn it, what's the word?
Ethnocentrism?
Decadence, decadence, yeah.
I remember sitting in a restaurant, and like, in the wake of 9-Eleven and everything, what
are we going to do?
There's a lot of Middle Eastern talk, a lot of officials coming forward, presidents,
prime ministers, all of a sudden people who haven't thought about the Middle East in ten
years are watching it on CNN and looking at like...and the king of Jordan comes out and
like, he's got this wife just like sitting there eating a cheeseburger going like, she's
hot.
Remember the king of Jordan, it was like, oh, she's hot.
She was hot.
I don't know, I thought that would get a bigger laugh, like, I was saying like, there's terrorist
attack happening, there's like all of this shit bubbling up, but it was like, I couldn't
even...
Well, what you do is you take something, you take something big and you try and digest
it in the way you can.
So you're trying to turn it into an HBO miniseries.
Do you remember when Saddam died, when they killed Saddam, right before that, they were
like, oh, he really liked Doritos, like, who, why are you telling us that?
You already killed him.
If you want us to like him, don't.
You'd be like, listen, turns out he likes Doritos, so we're going to stay out of execution.
He's not so different.
They're like, we killed him bad news, he liked Doritos, just like you do.
Fuck.
While we're in this ticklish, sensitive, fun area, I remember you and I having a conversation
because you're an actor, and you said you weren't back then, like, that was your first
audition as an actor, and since then now you get a little acting career and a little, little.
You know, I heard the first little.
I like that it goes from the big, like, making fun of where I'm from and my tribes, to now
also the person though.
Yeah, now we're going to go, it's very thorough.
I've seen your bed where you sleep, it's weird, it's like, it's a straw.
It reminds me of home, Dan.
I remember we had a conversation about like, the weird, like, like how, like, okay, a white
actor in America gets sides, gets an audition, hey, they need a guy to play the male lead's
best friend, he kind of wants to fuck his girlfriend, but he's half gay and he loves
basketball.
So you come in, and you come in and you go like, like the biggest struggle an American
white actor has as you go, like, oh, this guy's kind of Freddy, so I'm going to, I'm
going to, I'm going to put my spin on it, but whatever, it's not written for me.
But then there's this whole other component happens.
If you're Asian, if you're Latin, if you're, if you're Middle Eastern, if you're whatever
the other things are, Mordor, yeah, if you're an elf, if you're a dwarf, if you're, yeah.
So, I remember having a conversation that was kind of provocative and interesting, like
what we were talking about, like you being, like, through no choice of your own, you're
at the forefront of that, because you have to ask yourself as a person, obviously with
like a 350 IQ, comes from, comes from, like, like, actually not, not a metric system, though.
Not only ethnically, like, like, like, like, having this cross to bear, but actually, like,
you moved here, and, and are acting over here, and now you're, you get auditions, so you
go in, and it's like, you know, you imagine the kinds of things, like, like, like, we
all know, like, it's like, it's like, oh, this guy's the quirky guy, like, we had a conversation
about it, but I was drunk, so, like, I don't remember it, but I remember it being fascinating,
maybe we could dig it up, and I'm like, Dr. Frankenstein was just so in parts together.
I feel, okay, so for a long time, first of all, when I first started auditioning, it was,
I was auditioning for a lot of parts, clearly, that Aziz had gotten too big for, they were
clearly written in his voice, and I read, like, three cab drivers named Aziz, I fucking
swear that happened.
It's a fun name, Aziz, yeah, it's, yeah, you imagine him swinging tree to tree, Dan.
Oh, sorry, cave to cave.
Thank you.
Well, I think what it was, yeah, so I do a lot of auditions now where it's still, it's
getting better, but a lot of people will sort of basically tell me to up my accent without
saying it, so I'll, like, do the audition, they're like, oh, that was great, that was
great, could you do it a little, like, even more, like, even more exaggerated, I'm like,
first of all, I'm not doing anything, this is how I talk, and I made a decision, like,
two years ago where I was like, I'm not going to change my accent for any of these auditions,
so I've had a lot of auditions go well, and they're like, all right, now try it this way,
and I get sort of upset, and it becomes, it's kind of obvious, and so I have it, but then
I see, fucking, there's so many people, I don't want to name names, but there's people
that you know who are brown actors who I'll audition with, and I'll, I can fucking hear
them in there, like, pissing on their legacy, like, all doing all that shit, it fucking
pisses me off so much.
We're talking about Danny Peudy, right?
Fucking Danny Peudy, but it always gets me, that really angers me, it's like, it's like
sort of like, they're like scabs, you know, like, come on, we're all in this together,
don't fucking, and then they get the part.
Right.
Wow.
My ex-girlfriend Erin Hill, when I was dating her, she was a media studies, getting her
master's degree, going for her PhD, and she would spend all this time going through these
archives, and she uncovered this thing from the, probably the 40s or 50s, this Native
American actor, who, his head shot was like, it was signed, and he had a, he had a bowler
hat with a feather in it, and it was here running down his face.
Yeah, well, that was the 70s, that was when we actually started to go, like, hey, these
guys have clout, now that they're all dead, like, what if you made them cry?
Back then, it was still like, hey, they're funny, their houses are pointy.
His head shot was like, signed, like, me wantum commission for agentum, like, much good wantum
for, you know, like, like, like, obviously, you can tell the guy was like, like, a good
guy.
Yeah, he's like, how do I get the part?
Yeah.
And it's like, hero or villain, or the whole Hollywood shuffle thing, like, but it's, the
interesting thing about it is the lack of, like, easy empirical truth, because if I'm
an African-American actor, and I, like, like, why don't I, for instance, have the right,
the same right that a Caucasian actor would have to affect a Brooklyn accent, or take
advantage of the fact that I'm from Jersey, or, or, or, or that I have, that I know what
a Southern person sounds like, to, in order to try to get some part, or according to Francis
or whatever they're doing.
The, if you're, now you're a black person and you're going in as an actor, and it's
like, well, this guy's, he's a little groovier, he's a little blacker than you're doing it,
and that's not how you talk, but you're an actor.
That's the, it's, it's, it's a terrible thing to put someone in the, in the position of,
your, your, your craft is supposed to be pretending.
You're supposed to be able to pin medals to your chest to the extent that you're able
to portray of, or, you know, a, a, a, a, a different, different aspects of yourself and
other people, imaginary people.
We give awards to people who do it, who, who, who, who remove us from reality more.
And so now, even though you didn't buy a ticket to that ride, here you are as an actor, when
all the other actors get to just go, I either get the part or I don't, you have to, you
have to tweak it in your head and go, well, I either get the part or I don't, and there's
way less parts, and on top of that, I have to fucking act like the, I have to.
Like the one Indian guy, the one, like brown guy, the people that come, although the couple
of things, one, it's, I feel it changing, like I've been getting parts that were written
for white guys and stuff, so it's changing.
And I do think, honestly, that the character Abed on community did sort of change things
because it was a kind of brown guy that we hadn't seen on TV before.
And so when I read that, I was like, oh, when I watched the show, I was like, well, this
is great.
This is, you know, a new kind of brown guy.
This is going to change.
And then I read, like, the next pilot season, I read, like, five scripts that had, like,
basically Abed with different names.
A friend of mine that I won't name because I want to get him troubled, read a pilot and
the, it's, I don't even want to describe it because I don't want anyone to get in trouble.
But, like, there's a, according to this friend of mine, there's literally a point in the
script where the other characters are introduced to this kind of wacky ensemble.
And literally the names of the characters are Asian lady and fat guy and, like, they
didn't do it.
It's like, whoa, it got home by three today, huh?
Oh, crazy.
So, and I really think that if you're, you know, since the Harmontown audience, I assume
is 90% writers and 85% 25-year-old writers.
Like, I think that the way to break the cycle starts at the, starts at what I used to call
the typewriter.
Like, you, I think the key to it is, like, you have to avoid the temptation.
Like, like, with the Abed character in community, that was the one exception in that script
where you actually bothered to explicitly say, he says he's half Palestinian or something
like that.
Like, it was, it was in part real Abed is half Palestinian and felt important to the
character to me for some reason.
Maybe I was right.
Maybe I was wrong.
It makes sense because he's a guy who's half, so he's sort of obsessed with pop culture,
but then there's also this other part of him that sort of, it sort of makes him an observer,
even though it's not specifically a racial thing, but somebody who's sort of straddling
two cultures like that.
Maybe, I mean, in retrospect, but not, I mean, he could have been a white guy and it wouldn't
have been.
There was one storyline with his dad that was a little specific to that.
In retrospect, he definitely could have been a white guy and he surely could have been
half Indian, half Polish, which Deity Pudi is, but at the time there was this whole,
not the whole brouhaha, but it's just like, I monitor Twitter and it's like, there's
all kinds of different viewpoints that come in and some, you know, justifiably some come
in and go, why, why do you have an Indian guy playing a half Indian guy playing a half
Arabic guy?
Like, like, what are you doing?
So all brown people, blah, blah, blah.
Very justifiable, absolutely.
But it didn't shake down that way.
You create a character, you say, okay, this is based on my friend, Real Abed, whose dad
was Palestinian and whose mom was whatever, Nordic or something, and who had this very
specific backstory to him, you know?
His dad was like, like, it had really a lot to do with the relationship with his dad,
which we did explore.
Like, his dad was not a fundamentalist Muslim, but a passionate one, a stern guy, a kind
of great Santini type in my head, and that would be because father and son stories are
very important to male characters.
That was important, and it was like, race isn't important, that's an artificial construct,
but nationality of your parents could be called an important thing.
So then Danny Pudi walks in, fucking blows the roof off the room, okay, like, can we
stop talking about how good he was in the audition?
We get it, he got the part, then.
You know what?
I was really upset when I didn't get it, but when I saw the show, I was like, oh, the
right guy got it.
Anyway, go ahead.
No, I think that's the great thing about casting.
Yeah, it's like, no one's gonna feel bad about this, like, let's all watch the fireworks.
But then, so later on, it's like, the tweet's coming, and it really vexed me, because I'm
like, I've got all this white guilt, and like, I want to be Norman Lair, I don't want to
be, I don't want to be a bad person, I want to use my talent right, I want to contribute,
I want to make people happy, and people are going like, why is this brown guy playing
a different kind of brown guy so torn between like, this is a slippery slope, where you go
like, oh.
By the way, that's not an issue to me, or any, I mean, that's, they're really, really-
I think it's a justifiable issue to some people, but it all depends on where you, it's all
depends on the context, like if you, it really is, it's such a, it's such a strange time
to be alive, and I think, I think, I think that there is no, there is no magic wand to
wave over it, no rule, but I definitely think it starts with people writing scripts where
you gotta, you gotta detach yourself from, like it's, it's like, you just go like, oh,
this character is amazing, he's this big fat black guy, and he, but he talks like a little
girl, isn't that a great character?
No, it's not, like, that's a great actor if that guy comes in, and plays the character
of-
Well, how important would it be to you if, if you changed the gender of people, like-
Well, that's where, yeah, where do you stop, and that's, like, like, like, do we, do we,
do we progress to a weird Gene Roddenberry age, where screenplays are like, ones and
zeros, and you're kind of like, the, the rook has a problem with the pawn, you know, and
they said, I don't know, and does, and does that mitigate creativity, does that mitigate
passion, obviously the answer is yes, because to the extent that you do that, then some
punk rock writer's gonna go, two black dudes walk in, fucking script rules, you know, whatever,
so we don't, we don't have to keep talking about that, it's because there's no, there
is no, there is no, there is no finish line for that, I think, I think the discourse is
the valuable thing, I, I, I think that people talking about it is the only place that's
very-
I think as long as you're aware of that, you know, I think a lot of times, a lot of scripts
I read, it's just funny, I can read it, I'm like, oh, the line isn't funny, it's funny,
because whoever wrote it in his head, heard it in an Apu accent or whatever, that happens
a lot, and I've gone into, I, I don't want to, ah, this is too specific, alright, okay,
so, this is very specific, can I sort of tell you later to take it out if I decide, is that
okay?
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
Well, I had this one, you raped a baby.
I did this one movie.
What'd you say?
You raped a baby.
T-T-T-T-T-L-D-R, yeah, yeah, I wanted to rape a black baby, but then, you know, I was
like, well, it doesn't matter, it was like Hispanic or whatever.
Some kind of-
Snickers.
What?
I'm sorry, we can't edit it out, that's where we did our Snickers spot.
They pay us a lot of money.
Shirt design t-shirts, so soft.
This, say, we're brought to you by the Misco.
I, ah, I, this movie that I did not audition for that seen my stuff that I liked, and it
wasn't a huge part, so I went in, and the first day of shooting, they were like, so
how thick are you going to do your accent?
And I was like, well, I'm not going to do it thick at all.
And they were like, what do you mean?
It's written, it's supposed to be a thick Indian accent.
I was like, well, I sort of have the 10 year out of Pakistan accent, and that's what it's
going to be.
So it became this huge thing, ah, producers were calling in stuff, and I called my agent,
and I was like, you know, I think they're going to fire me off this movie.
And I was like, I know I can make this part funny being myself with the lines, but I don't
know if I can make it funny if you want me to do like a crazy accent.
And then I just, I was like, just let me do one the way I talk, and then we can talk after
that.
And it worked, and it worked great, and they were like, alright, just do what you're doing.
So I think a lot of people are just scared of writing parts or imagining parts that don't
fit into whatever, you know, their little boxes or whatever.
It's hard to see.
You get, you know, in the beginning, like there was a, now there are a lot of black
actor characters on TV, and they're all sort of varied and different.
And I'm sure there's still strides to be made.
But there was an actor, Emily was telling me about this, there was an actor in, when
was it, Emily?
His name was Sleep and Eat, is what he went by.
And his whole mythology, sleep aid, sleep and eat, like sleep and eat, he was an actor,
and his whole thing was just give me a place to sleep and something to eat, and I'll work
for you like he totally played up that whole.
He could step or fetch it.
Yeah, it really was like that.
It was like that.
And so, so, and that was...
He wanted Wampum for his, yeah, that wasn't that long ago, you know, and it's changed.
So yeah, so on one side of it, yeah, you got writers, writers have got to do everything
they can to go like, okay, I'm going to create a character that's based on an emotional component.
And if there's biographical components that comes out of the watch, and then on the actor's
side, it's like, I think if you're the Meryl Streep of Pakistani actors, then you could
maybe fuck around with it, they go like, yeah, lay the accent on a little more thick, you
go like, okay, I'm going to do that based on my decades of studying all of these different
kinds of...
You know what I mean?
Yeah, for me, it was, I decided not to do it because it was hard for me to parse which
parts were the guy with a thick accent, and it made sense in the story, it made sense
for the character, and which parts were, because that was going mostly for comedies, which parts
were a thick accent just because the guy thought it would be funnier for a thick accent Indian
guy to say a motherfucker or whatever, you know?
Or talk about Star Wars, which was like a big thing before...
Oh yeah.
That was why Abed was like an important thing to me, because it was like, I want him to
be the foremost expert, yes, he's going to be talking about pop culture, it's not funny
because he doesn't have an accent, he's, it's like before that, I mean he has an accent
that's the American accent.
Let me ask you a question, when Batman fights Bob the Goon in issue number three, it's funny,
oh, because listen to how he talks, he's not supposed to know about Star Wars, and that's
like, that to me is like, kind of like a black guy in a dress, it's like all the part of
the same like tree, it's like, okay, there's nothing, the character's not real, the character's
like a...
Yeah, but then also when you think of something like nerd, the way that nerds are written
a lot of times are also in a box, so you know, Star Wars is a good example, I read so many
scripts with someone, is it talk about Star Wars, that's like, oh, they're a nerd, they're
a nerd, and I would always, if I'm working on something and there's a Star Wars reference,
I'm like, that feels so generic, that feels like you're just saying sci-fi, make it more
specific, make it, you know, Lord of the Rings or something.
So for everything you do, there's these sort of pointers, like little ways that you put
people in boxes, I can't, I believe you guys are here still.
Be a better writer and be a better actor, and we'll all meet somewhere in between.
All right, speaking of characters and, let's pull my pants down.
Yeah, Dan, whip that dick out on these people.
I want to show you these two characters, Clifford and Northumberland.
Let's bring Spencer...
They're classics?
They're classics.
Spencer, Spencer, will you come to the stage?
Spencer Crittenden is in...
Spencer Crittenden, Detective Master extraordinaire.
Hey, I have something to ask Kumeil while Spencer sets up, because we don't do anything
like very...
We're not a big, planning podcast, and as a person, I don't make a lot of plans and contact
a lot of people, but this is your third time up here, and are you bummed out that you have
to keep coming up, or are you...
No, I love being on stage with you guys, it's always super fun.
Okay, because your character can like fall off a cliff, or also like, you don't have
to...
Like, there's no pressure.
I know.
But if your character had maybe a little bit more...
You give us more...
What's the word I'm looking for, Dan?
I don't know.
Spice.
A little more...
You know what's funny, could you cave it up a little more?
Cave it up!
What's funny is...
Kiko, cave it up.
For black actors, there is a phrase that always says, be more street.
That's what they say, or more urban.
For my people, there isn't that word yet.
Attitude, attitude.
Yeah, attitude.
Black people hear a lot.
For us, there aren't...
There isn't like a set number of like adjectives that you can use to really...
There must be some.
There's certainly in casting offices...
They'll say even more...
Some people are stereotypical, obviously.
They say, yeah, that one's harsh.
One woman was like, all right, that's good, but even more funny.
But the way she said it was like, you know what I mean?
Like...
You know, like you people.
Could you be less...
Could you be less six, ten, and more, I don't know, seven, eleven?
Yeah.
You're at an eight, need you at a seven, eleven.
What I'm getting right now is like a B plus poo.
Yeah.
I'm like a...
They really want you to do...
Like a B poo.
They really want you to do the Appu accent, which is voiced by a white guy.
Hilarious.
That idea of an Indian accent is literally a white guy.
Oh.
Anyway.
But you know what?
It is getting better.
What did you think about...
God damn it.
What's his name?
He's an awesome actor, a monk.
Tony Shalu.
What did...
Did you see Quick Change with Bill Murray?
I don't remember.
I saw it when I was a little kid.
He plays a cab driver in it.
Bad, bad, bad first impression.
Like, and he plays a cab driver who is very...
He doesn't speak English.
And he's like...
It's just this farce.
Like, Bill Murray's trying to get out of town.
He robbed a bank and now he can't get out of New York.
And one of the complications is, like, Jason Robards plays as a detective, he's one step
behind Bill Murray and he's trying to pick up his trail.
Tony Shalu played this, like, just on paper, like, he's a Middle Eastern cab driver.
He's one of the many things about New York that prevents you from getting out after a
bank robbery.
And so he's witnessed to the fact that Randy Quaid, like, fell out of the cab, blah, blah,
blah, blah.
Bill Murray is interrogating him, like, where did they go, where did they go?
And he's doing, like, this mime stick, like, on paper, like, it couldn't be more, like...
He's going, Bluff Tony, Bluff Tony!
And he's, like, miming, honking a horn.
He's trying to tell them through his, you know...
How is he a cab driver if we can't understand English?
I remember the first time realizing, like, watching Short Circuit, Fisher Stevens, and
being like, that's not...
Yeah.
I don't know what we look like, and it's not that.
The...
I just...
I...
I just always, like, like, if you watch it, go rent Quick Change, so it's a really, like,
I don't know, it's an amazing little, like, three in the morning movie, Snuggle Up with
Your Girlfriend, or Boyfriend, Open Minded Night, and, or your dog, but not if...
Whatever.
It doesn't...
Don't fuck your dog, that's what we're saying.
And also, I'm not equating bestiality with homosexuality, or with heterosexuality.
No, no, no, those are three distinct types of people.
Cut...
Cuttle up with whatever you want to cuddle up with.
Or don't cuddle.
Hang upside down like a bat.
Don't cuddle.
The point is not what you're doing, the point is the movie.
There's no wrong way to watch Quick Change is what you're saying.
I don't know.
I think fucking your dog and watching it might be...
I think that's a bigotative view, to say that.
I say...
Yeah, what if the dog's into it?
There are people...
Why is that a crime?
Well, a lot of people are going to hear this podcast, and some of them may want to rape
an animal while they watch Quick Change, and I say...
Well, I'm raping...
Well, I say...
I say good for you.
No, rape...
Rape sensual.
And what...
The important thing is that you watch Quick Change.
The animals aren't important here.
Different people...
Yeah.
Different priorities.
Right?
A stereotypical Middle Eastern character while watching Quick Change.
Just watch Quick Change.
Tony Shalub walks into this character that is written as a sand trap of stereotypicality.
Sand trap.
He's no punny.
Wow.
I love that play.
No words.
Jesus Christ.
Okay, the reason I said that is because I didn't see it as a thing, because I don't think
it was.
Really?
Golf?
So...
Parts of you saw it.
You're a big golfer.
Dan, this is the first golf finale you used in the entire run of the show.
Well, if racism is that unconscious, then hey, well, yeah.
He's trying to curry favor with the police officer.
Tony Shalub, who is like, like, I...
Then you can salvage this.
Go watch it.
It's the scene Jason Robards is talking to this guy, this character that may as well be
Mickey Rooney in Breakfast in Tiffany's.
Oh, dear.
But Tony Shalub, like, who didn't say no to that audition, I'm not at all flying in the
face of anything that we've said, but it's an interesting thing to look at, because
Tony Shalub, like, he made some decision walking under the set that, look, I'm an actor, and
I'm going to make people feel this character's pain and frustration.
I'm not going to make them hear his funny accent.
And here's the only thing I can remember from that scene is, like, Jesus Christ, this guy
is so scared.
And so, like, he's alone and he doesn't know what's happening, like, it breaks you to the
brink of tears.
It's just supposed to be this stupid gag about this guy that talks funny, but I'm telling
you, like, take a look at it.
Tell me if I'm wrong.
Email me, whatever.
You know what I mean?
Next time in town, we just screened a quick change.
I can guarantee you, we'll get Tony Shalub for that one.
Oh, my God, that would be amazing.
Another thing I remember the first time being, like, watching this, and as a kid, and being
like, that's not right, was, I think it was bad boys, where there's a part where they're
talking to, like, a clerk at basically a 7-Eleven, whatever.
Do you remember that scene?
And the guy calls him a mother bitch.
And I was like, aw, we know everybody, if you know enough to know that bitch is a swear
word and that mother something is a swear word, you know it's mother fucker.
Mother bitch, nobody's ever said that.
It's funny, it's funny.
You guys are like mad libs.
You don't know what you're doing.
Yeah.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, my goodness, chicken, I burned all your motherless dog, I put a goat
in your foot, you chowed, chowed punter.
Spencer, keep it the fuck down, would you?
Enough.
All right, we need enough.
Sorry.
We need a stool and a mic for, for, for Sedona, Mulraine, Mulraine's side.
Sharon McGathey for the stage, would you?
Spencer, get us up to date in our, in our campaign, would you please?
Yeah, did anything happen last night?
What can you guys, can you guys?
Huh?
Did anything happen last time?
I have, I have a vague memory, I, I, I, I was in bed knitting Jeff a scarf, did anything
happen?
Oh yeah, I, I, I fucked your horse, but also I fucked a bird and I fucked a squirrel, I
fucked a lot of things.
You fucked a half a dead zombie?
I fucked, yeah, I was, I don't know if you fucked it in the appropriate part or if you
just fucked the, where it got sliced, it was unclear.
Adam Goldberg was, was texting me last week during the show, live texting Jeff just, Jeff
just fucked your horse.
And then Dustin Marshall was like, not a real horse, you know.
Well, Spencer, take it away.
The horse is as real as the fucking it got, I mean, relatively speaking.
When we last met, our heroes had been following Christopher, the bard to the fabled ruins
of Mercule, home of the soul of growth.
After traveling for a time, day shifted to night, and before long, the sound of unsettling
moans and wails echoed throughout the forest.
Less than cognizant of the impending threat, our heroes took a rest break, discussing music,
studying ancient tomes and fucking wildlife, until, until a grip of zombies were all but
upon them.
Mulraine, who in a fey mood bargained with the party over her use of the entangle spell,
eventually decided to use it and captured several zombies.
After making quick, several concessions, the party waited for the forest to do its bidding.
After entangling their foes, the two made, the, the barbarian, with the help of the new
blood spell cast by Sharpie, made quick work of the remaining zombies' stranglers.
This is all going to shit.
The party pressed on before arriving at an ancient crumbling ruin deep within the forests
of Twila.
So if you can see, I'm not even on the music, I'm so sorry everybody.
You got, you got 26 seconds.
How are you feeling?
Does that how you're feeling?
Walking through the ruins, you notice several stone statues before you, lurking and guarding
the ruins within.
Spencer everybody.
Thanks audience.
All right.
Okay.
So it's Quark, Sharpie, Mulraine and Chris de Burgh, who, uh, he wrote, he wrote and performed
The Lady in Red.
Yeah.
Huge hit.
Careers kind of falling on, you know, maybe a bit of a, a bit of a low.
I would say so.
You certainly didn't expect that you'd find yourself here.
No, no, no.
I thought once I had Lady in Red, I was like, oh, the world is more like, I looked in the
mirror and I was like, this shit's too easy.
Yeah.
Sergeant Pepper.
Now here you are.
You're standing outside of a stone ruin.
Uh, who knows what's going to happen?
Yeah.
I've heard horses being fucked.
Shit's, shit's gone off track.
All right.
So, uh, I examined surrounding Spencer.
The masonry appears ancient, part of some long past ruined civilization.
Most prominence are worn and crumbling statues stood on stone pedestals bearing the likeness
of humanoids with bestial heads.
They appear to be dragon heads.
The statues flank a well-worn stone floor that leads about 60 feet down to a thick
stand of tightly knit trees between the trees as a small crevice in the dead center of the
clump of trees.
I find, uh, sorry.
No, that's, I was, I was just saying go.
Sorry.
It's okay.
It's okay, Spencer.
Are we cool?
I, my self-esteem is just.
What's going on, Spencer?
You seem a little down.
Spencer, you're a true dungeon master.
What's going on, Spencer?
You're the best.
What are you talking about?
Thanks, guys.
Oh, yeah.
I couldn't tell you.
What's going on?
I had a great, I had a great day with Nolan.
Um, you know, I, I had.
Christopher?
I wish.
Yeah.
What a name drop that would be.
He's just like, he's just out there.
With Nolan.
No.
Sitting on top of the Hollywood stand.
Yeah.
We're in talks for a fourth Batman.
What if this H was in another H?
Christopher, you're amazing.
Yeah.
What was the question?
Who is Nolan?
What?
He's, he's there.
Oh.
Spencer, you don't see yourself tonight.
What's going on?
Yeah.
No.
Uh, we ate at Pink's Hot Dogs.
Uh-oh.
Okay.
Did you get the, did you get the Andui dog?
I couldn't even tell you what I got.
It was like, I thought I was going to get something and then I saw these little squares
that said try these other things and I tried one of the other things.
You mean menus?
Spencer?
No, menus are lists.
These are squares.
What's the problem?
The problem is that the hot dog was too big.
You might have just wanted a bite of the hot dog.
I'm still, what?
Are you saying that your stomach is a little turmoil right now?
No.
Are you shitting like a goose right now?
That's already, I'm past that phase.
Right.
That's done.
Spencer, did you, did you have a good time at Dan and my Oscar party?
Yeah.
You know how to throw a party, Aaron.
Uh, all right.
Well noted.
I guess I'm always looking for validation at the party.
That was a good line reading.
Let's try it again.
Yeah.
This time, could you be before, uh, he's been to the same websites that Adam Goldberg
is going to.
I wasn't fishing.
I really enjoyed the peanut butter cake.
It was good.
Yeah.
I made peanut butter cake.
They don't have to be separate, uh, uh, things that make you equally happy.
Like you can actually have peanut butter and cake at the same time.
It was our tea day and I was like, Dan, what do you want?
He was like, meh, peanut butter cake.
I was like, that's not real.
And then I Googled it.
It was very real.
And I do admit I made it up, but I knew if you Googled it, you, I know there's going
to be a thing because it's going to be blowjob lollipop.
Well, I mean, that's already a real thing.
Every lollipop's a blowjob lollipop.
40 years of chronic masturbation.
If you Google it, it is there.
I knew peanut butter cake would be there if, if I can like cake farts is there.
Oh man.
Um, I find my horse Coco, uh, sitting at the bottom of a shower.
Wait, my memory's a little foggy, but I, I, I'm pretty sure at some point it became
consensual with Coco, right?
It became consensual.
That's the rapiest thing anyone has ever said.
No, no.
She stopped resisting.
It became consensual.
She stopped crying.
I did not rape Coco.
I fucked Coco and Coco dug it.
Did she?
Okay.
Spencer, what was Coco's stance on this?
If I recall, Coco, uh, her, her, her Winnie's, uh, her, her, her name means yay.
She, that is the best horse rape joke I've ever heard.
Oh my God.
Shows over.
Um, best horse rape joke ever.
Yeah.
Name means yay.
That's pretty good.
Meanwhile, statistically 11 people in this room have been raped.
Uh, by Jeff, by me last, last week.
And they fucking loved it.
Halfway through.
They're not starting liking it.
The horse, the horse.
This is important.
Where, where's it consensual?
This is very.
The horse did orgasm.
Call the episode name means yay.
Can we, can we make that the name of the episode?
I'm in favor of that.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Are you rolling a dice to see who?
I randomly determined that it was consensual.
It was consensual, he says.
It was consensual?
Yeah.
See, one through three would have been non-consensual.
I rolled a four through six.
So it was barely.
Yeah.
Barely consensual.
It was, it was critical, it wasn't critical consensuality.
She's had better.
I'm a gnome.
It's not the size of the barbarian.
It's the motion of the sword.
It's the motion of the potion.
She thought the, the wind was blowing strong.
Okay.
Well, no, that's good news.
That's good news.
Yeah.
Well, fine.
Well, fantastic.
I don't remember.
You don't remember?
Right.
Okay.
So I led them here, right?
Yeah.
You were, you were leading them here.
Zombies happened.
You took care of those.
Then you came around this room.
Yeah.
I killed, I hit a zombie.
It was my first hit in many years.
Chris.
Chris, let it go, man.
You think it's, you're hung up on this.
Chris, as you're traveling on this journey, do you have any
sound track running in your mind?
Yeah.
What's happening right now?
It's lady in red.
All right.
We're looking down a flight of stairs.
What?
Down, it's done a flight of stairs.
Like I, I'm not a visual.
Okay.
There's, there's two, there's four statues to on either side of this path.
The path goes to like what seems to be an unusually thick clump of trees.
And in this thick clump of trees, you can see like maybe a man sized hole in the
trees.
Okay.
Which, which man?
Many different sizes.
Never mind.
So, so that's in there is where the soul of growth is.
Yeah.
You know that for sure.
Christopher.
Yeah.
I led you guys here.
I haven't led you astray yet.
It's in there.
All right.
Christopher, why do you keep on signing all these trees and you're putting your autograph
on everything?
Done.
I'm sorry.
No.
Cause I'm practicing for my, you know, inevitable second hit.
That was a bad set up.
I'm sorry.
Pork.
Will you will them to foe into this hole and kind of like a platoon style?
Okay.
So I, I, I, I do my best will them to foe impression from platoon.
And I go, see you in a week.
And I, that's from platoon.
And I, and I, and I, and I, I, I, I turn a little, a little, one of those Vietnam
bendy flashlights that have a little red light.
And I jumped down the hole.
Well, do you want to look for Vietnam bendy flashlights?
Or Vietnam bendy flashlight on Amazon?
I've got one.
Okay.
Yeah.
Do you want to light an actual torch?
Yes.
Okay.
I light an actual torch.
Yeah.
Slipping through the, slipping through the hollow, you fall about 20 feet, landing
in about thick or three feet, thick feet, three feet of thick foul mud below the mud
is hard stone.
And you can't see in the pitch black conditions.
Where's my torch?
It just plunged into this thick mud and went out.
I walk over, light a torch, and I want to throw it to him.
That happens.
Okay.
You can see, you see a torch falling from above.
Hey, torch!
Got it!
All right.
You grab the torch and hold it aloft.
Thanks, Christopher.
Yep.
The room is pretty narrow, but you can make out what seems to be a square in the far
wall.
Try not to fuck it.
You know square peg, round hole, that kind of thing?
I should mention, I'm all fucked out from last week.
You also see several perfectly spherical fist size holes perforating the wall.
I fuck, I fuck one of those holes.
The first one feels good, not the second one feels slightly bitey.
It's too loose, man.
You're not that big.
You can fist it.
I said fist size holes, man.
Okay.
I put my fist in the, I fist the hole?
I'm not suggesting that.
What am I, gross?
What is happening?
I, look, I see a hole shaped like a fist.
I put my fist in the hole.
Okay.
Yeah.
Fists in the hole, dude.
I, and then I, I, I rotate it 30 degrees to the right, then 40 degrees to the left.
I don't know.
I hear the far offset.
No, nothing happens.
Okay.
I take my fist out of the hole.
Hey guys, come on then.
There's a bunch of fist holes down here.
I think you might have rope.
Yeah.
I mean, I have a rope guys.
We can use it to climb down.
Yeah.
You want to climb down?
You want to climb into the darkness below.
You meet with Quark in the mud.
I use my staff, that staff with the button on it.
Using that staff with the button on it.
You climb into the hole where the people are.
Hey guys.
I.
Did you use the staff with the button on it?
Yeah.
I press the button on stick it, you know.
That's the trick.
I, I use, I take one of my sacs and I, I throw it at the bottom of the hole.
And then I jump on the sack.
Like a landing pad.
Okay.
Oh, is it, is the dirt an issue here?
I had rope.
You could climb down.
Oh, okay.
And I a pole.
Can I use, can I use Chris's rope?
Oh, thank you so much.
Yeah.
Of course.
Thank you.
The rope, the ropes for everyone.
Yeah.
Also, there's free feed of mud down here.
I landed pretty softly.
You can just kind of, you can kind of, kind of just hop on in here.
Like, I mean, I have rope, I will happily use your rope.
Guys, I examine the, the square at the, at the end of the thing.
It appears to be some sort of wooden board.
It's caked with mud and is stuck fast to the wall.
I detect magic on it.
It is non-magic.
Oh, this isn't magic.
Uh, does anybody have any thief, thiefy, like, detect traps?
Detect traps.
Should I do detect traps?
I mean, you can, you can look for traps totally.
All right.
I look for traps totally.
Looking for traps.
You fail to find anything.
Those holes are kind of suspicious, but you don't think they're traps.
How many holes are there?
There's, there's several.
I mean, there's, you will, you, if you counted them, you think it would be a waste of time.
I count the holes.
Never seen you looking so lovely as you did tonight.
There are 76 holes.
Guys.
76?
Fist holes led the big.
I think a bunch of people just came down here.
I think the first guy saw the wooden board, detected traps and magic on it and nothing
happened and he was like, fuck, what do I do?
And he punched and then, and then whatever happened to him happened and then the next
guy came down and said, why is there a fist size hole?
It's got to be significant.
And then he punched like a bunch and then that kept happening.
76 guys.
So I kick, I kick the wooden square.
I kick it.
What's your strength?
Two million, nine, minus one ability modifier.
Yeah.
Nine is a negative modifier, kicking the board.
You feel it give a little bit, but it doesn't budge.
I kick it too.
What's your strength?
I'm 18 with a plus four ability modifier.
You kick it too.
It bends it a bit better, but not much shit.
Can I call down a Coco?
She is a horse.
Oh yeah.
Can I fortify the wood?
What are you going to do?
We're trying to break it.
Yeah.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Well, I don't think Coco can fit down here.
I summon, really, she can't get it because she kicks so hard.
Okay.
Yeah.
Tell me about it.
Fine.
She liked it.
It's fine.
She was trying to kick you off.
That's nothing to be proud of.
I like it.
I like it and I'm empowered.
It's fine.
I have a pretty high strength thing.
I have 13 plus one.
Okay.
Do you want to try and also kick it?
Do I have some sort of battering ram?
I mean, you don't.
You have.
Let's see.
I have an open lock thing.
Can I, is there a, is it a lock of some sort?
You could look for a lock.
If you fail to see a lock, it just appears to be like sealed with some sort of wax or
maybe glue to this wall.
I listened very carefully to the, to the wood, like I put my ear to it.
I can disable device.
Yeah.
Oh, go first.
Go ahead.
You hear the faint sounds of hissing coming from some other floor far off.
Snakes.
Why did it have to be snakes?
Spencer has no idea.
You know, I saw, I saw the first, the first Indiana Jones.
Oh, what'd you think?
It was good.
It wasn't like original.
And I mean, it was, but it wasn't that original.
After seeing all of television, biting it off for like years, like you've seen literally
every element represented in other things.
That's like easy.
That's what I watch.
Easy Rider.
I'm like, what the fuck is this?
Yeah.
Are they awesome?
But it was like, it was like, it was, it was seeing all of it like throughout time.
I don't know.
It was good.
You know, you saw the movie, where I live.
What did you think of my hosting when you were watching the movie?
Did you like it when you was my hosting good?
It was great.
Can I?
I really loved the party, Aaron.
That didn't sound good either.
I don't know how to.
No, never.
You know what?
Spencer, just throw it away.
Just putting too much into it.
I really like the party.
Wait, what?
Oh.
Just throw it away.
You're thinking about it too much.
I had a party.
No.
I actually tried.
Can I?
This is not going to work.
I'll kick it.
Fine.
I think we're doing two different bits.
I kick it also, and I have 13 plus one strength.
Okay.
Sorry.
I forgot everything.
We're just kicking a wooden thing right now.
You kick it.
You see it splinter.
That's what Coco said about that.
You think it's almost broken.
Guys, it's almost broken.
By the way, I heard hissing on the other side of it.
Shit.
I use a rapid fire shot, and I shoot two arrows at the burning hands.
My mom's here.
He's broken hearted over wanting you to use something.
I used two arrows.
I shoot them at either side of the frame.
They strike the board and plant fast in the board.
I think you just made the board stronger.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I got yelled at by burning hands.
Can I cast burning hands on the board?
Casting burning hands on the board is consumed in flames.
You see a hole about three feet in diameter.
It looks like it goes some distance.
Does my light spell have a range to it?
Can I cast a light?
You cast it on an object, and it'll make it glow like a torch.
I take one of my arrows, put a light on it, and I'll shoot it.
Nicely done.
You have arrows.
Yeah, I mean, I have arrows, I have a hit song, I've got a couple.
The hit song sort of arrowed to the top of the charts back in the day.
I cast light on the tip of one of Christopher's arrows.
And I then, in turn, shoot that arrow.
Through the hole, right?
Through the hole, yeah.
Behind him, I like mime it.
Very sadly.
That was me that did it, not her.
But I mean, through my mime encouragement.
Yeah, awesome.
I watched this all happen and do a camera take and go.
And then Coco looks at him and takes her a hoe and goes...
I fuck Coco again.
No, you're in the hole.
Coco's up there.
I climb the rope and fuck Coco.
No, I took the rope down, it's my rope.
I take your Sharpie staff and I climb the staff.
He's just jangling for the rope.
Sanctuary!
I shit on the ground for no reason.
Hey, how about the lighted arrow that I shot?
Firing the lighted arrow through the hole.
Let's focus.
Yeah, but me fucking Coco's a B story.
Let's get back to the A story.
For a brief moment, you can see the floor being lit up.
There seems to be a mosaic scrawled across the floor.
It's big and green, but you're not sure what it's representing.
Because it glows and you're shooting it and it plants in the wall.
So it plants in the far wall and you can see what appears to be a wooden door.
As well as a stone lever jetting out of the wall.
Do we see any snakes?
You don't see any snakes.
I pull the stone lever.
You are in a different room.
We gotta walk in.
As a gnome, am I small enough to squeeze through that small hole?
I think all of us can.
You can all go through, but not at the same time.
But Chris de Burgh has the power to detect traps.
Yeah.
I'll go in.
Not in a 4-chan sense.
I go in.
I go in and I detect traps.
That was a low roll, wasn't it?
You rolled an 18, so that's pretty good.
I don't know.
Do you see, you should have a search check.
Do you have on the skills?
Is there a number there?
Yeah, 9.
Awesome.
10.
It's 9.
It's still pretty good.
Surveying the landscape, you see a few oddities.
There's some scrape marks on the walls.
You can see a few cracks in the ruins where roots poke out of the walls,
but they seem to be cut off.
It definitely seems like there might be some trap about,
but you can't determine its true nature.
Guys, I'm getting a weird vibe here.
There's vines that are out of the walls.
Somebody did cut the vines, but it seemed like they were attack vines.
Look where the vines are cut and see if there's openings.
That penitent man will kneel from Indiana Judge 3.
Are they cut because something comes out of the walls?
I'm just saying.
You can just see only the very bits of them come out of the walls.
Almost as soon as they come out of the walls, that's where they're shorn off.
Right, so something comes through here like a dick of a...
I have a trap sense too.
Can I add onto that?
You can search for trap.
I search for traps.
You don't find a new trap?
Shit.
Why don't you go fuck a horse?
You know what? I don't mind if I do.
Alright, let me see if I have a spell.
Everybody back up out of here.
I think I have a spell that I can pull that lever from a remote distance.
And if I'm wrong about that, then I will have wasted your time.
So Chris, do you have a lot of arrows?
Yeah, I mean I got mage hand, right?
Okay, everybody back up, back up.
If you have to take a shit, go take a shit, smoke them if you got them.
Alright, everybody get out of the line of fire of this hole.
I'm going to cast mage hand on the lever from safely outside the entrance to that whole tunnel.
And pull that lever.
You pull the lever.
At first nothing happens, but then you see movement on the wooden door far down the hall.
It rumbles and then falls forward.
It hits the ground and shatters part of the mosaic, causing a few cracks to run down its length.
You see behind the wall there is no doorway, but instead just a dead end.
That's confusing.
This lever was a decoy lever, I think.
We're back in puzzle world.
Yeah, we're running a lot.
Can we examine the mosaic before we do it?
Yeah, we look at the mosaic.
At this point, only kumels in this room.
Oh, fuck, you didn't wait for me to leave until you pulled the lever.
I said everybody get back, everybody get back.
Why didn't you hear you?
Okay, so wait, you are now back in the room that you guys are in?
Yeah, when he was like, everyone get back, I went back into the main standard room.
I can go back in and look at the mosaic.
Okay, so now you want to go back in and look at the mosaic?
Yeah, I just want to see what the...
It's like there's a giant green serpentine, like perhaps a dragon.
Definitely a dragon, I take that back.
Guys, it's definitely a dragon.
What?
At first I thought it was like a snake kind of thing, but it's definitely a dragon.
Its mouth is open wide in aggression, and you can see its mouth is just an entire slab of ruby crystal.
Quirk should fuck it.
There's a ruby crystal, can I remove the ruby crystal?
Do you want to?
At this point you're still like near these guys, right?
I think we're running along.
We should come to a cliffhanger here.
Well, let's let this play out.
We came out at 8, 10.
It's 10 now, that means we've put these people through worse.
What are they going to do?
Complain?
I can't...
Yeah, that is exactly what they could do.
Here, I'll fix it.
Ladies and gentlemen, Eric Eidl's here.
No, he's not.
He's not.
Sorry, I thought that would bolster them for a second.
That would be really funny if Eric Eidl did come out then, and he was just sitting on it like, we're going to go really long.
But he's been here every week.
Yeah.
He just comes with me every right now.
He's the new me.
He comes up to me when I'm like three in the morning, I'm at Del Taco, and they're like,
sir, could you please make up your mind, I'm like, you know what, Eric Eidl's here, and he comes up.
Hello?
The guy's like, I don't.
Dan wants a taco.
Dan wants a taco now.
That was omaji and mocking at the same time.
So can I remove, should I try and remove the ruby?
Do it, Christopher.
Remove it.
Oh, it's a red ruby.
This is my specialty.
Ruby in red.
Who's that?
Grabbing at the ruby.
You pry with all your might.
At the second you begin prying, you hear a rumbling sound behind you.
Guys.
You're the only one in the room at this point.
Guys!
Turning around behind you, you see that a large stone wall is rumbled down, blocking your exit.
Oh.
At the same time, you feel the giant ruby you've been grabbing.
Move and jiggle a little bit, as if it's trying to pull itself free.
As if it's trying to pull itself free from my hands, or it's from the thing it says?
From what you're doing.
I spoke dumb.
So it's trying to regain...
You're making progress, pulling the ruby out of the thing, but it's not out yet.
I dived through into the room with him.
No, it's blocked.
I was slashing with my sword in a barbarian rage.
I tried to make it through to the room with Christopher.
Okay, so you strike the rock surface with your sword.
Yes.
Feels useless.
I'm like, I'm digging through.
I'm trying to get my... I tunnel with my sword.
You make the lightest of scratches.
If I cast knock on it, does knock work on this kind of thing?
Knock wouldn't work on this. It's far too heavy.
Knock wouldn't work on you.
It's not openable.
So...
Slowly, the wall starts rumbling towards you.
Threatening to crush you against the far...
Christopher, get out of there, you son of a bitch!
Can they hear me?
Um, sure.
Guys, these are my last words.
Lady Enra!
Cliffhanger!
Alright, okay.
Oh, no.
Okay.
Thank you, Aaron.
Thank you, Camille, not Gianni.
Thank you, Camille.
Erin McGathy.
And Spencer.
That's a cliffhanger, because now Christopher is just trapped in a crumbling room,
and we're helpless to save him.
It's crazy. I mean, Joseph Campbell would be very proud of us, I think.
What stage would that be in a story, you think?
I don't know, the belly of the thingamabob.
What you doing there?
I'm just trying to get tangle-free.
Alright, then.
Let's bring this ship into the station and talk about what we learned.
What did you learn?
I don't know.
Go with the flow? That's kind of easy to learn.
I learn that every week, by having a show that pays nothing,
and that I don't care if it goes good or bad.
I think the lesson just kind of continues.
Like DC Pearson said, this is the reason movies don't continue past the end.
As a hero, I'm kind of done.
I like these guys coming here.
If you were really courageous, you would just gently put the mic back in the stand
and walk off the stage, and allow that to be the end of the show.
I don't know.
But let me ask you one thing.
No, no, that's the part.
You were supposed to just say, the master walks away,
and you should just walk away and leave these people with the confidence
of knowing that you've done your job.
What were you going to ask them?
What if it feels awkward?
It'll feel awkward if you let them know it's awkward.
You know in the old days, the term break a leg comes from not from like actor's superstition,
it comes from make it to the end, because bowing, where you break your back leg,
like you kind of bend your leg, that means make it to the end.
And it's lowering yourself to the audience and saying thank you for coming.
So like if you just did a deep bow to the audience, saying thank you.
I thought it came from John Wilkes Booth breaking his leg after shooting the president in the head.
No, he broke an ankle.
That's like your leg.
I mean the alternative is that you have to leave these people with some sort of special message.
It's difficult.
It's lonely.
You're all by yourself out there.
People pay $10.
Spencer drove from CME Valley to be here.
There's a woman here from Estonia tonight.
Is that true?
No.
In the beginning, there was nothing.
Nothing had an eternity to decide that nothing was worse than something.
Nothing split into a million somethings,
AKA everything.
You were part of that everything.
So was the person next to you.
No matter who fires you,
no matter whose laundry is left in your apartment complex is drier.
Half dry.
No matter who writes notes on your company's refrigerator's great coupon saying touch and die.
And then writes notes on the door of the fridge saying everything in here after Friday will be thrown away.
No matter how many recycling bins you can't tell from regular bins.
No matter how many pains and your nuts and your kidney and your forehead and the back of your neck,
no matter how much hair you see in your shower drain.
No matter what you look like from the side in the mirror after you take a shit.
No matter what some crazy lady said about you that came back to you after you went out with her for a week
and then you found out she said something weird about you because you ran into someone at Kmart.
You are a citizen of Harmontown.
You belong.
You belong if you're human.
You belong if you leave your isms and your itises at the door.
I've never seen a sight that didn't look better looking back.
Thank you for coming to Harmontown tonight.
I've been Gaith, Ryan Ridley, Erin McGathy, Kumail Nanjiani, Spencer Crittenden.
Again, I'm Jeff Davis and you may hear Dan Harmon, everyone.
See Marvin, everybody, singing their songs. I knew closing.